hello everybody happy Monday to you all
hi to everyone in the chatbox I saw all
your countries popping up Saudi Pakistan
Peru welcome to you hello
so if you're just joining in the chat
box here on Zoom just send your message
to all panelists and attendees so then
everybody can see your message hello in
Bangladesh Singapore as well I'm here in
Melbourne anyone else in Australia with
me New Zealand - hello neighbor
pretty close okay originally from
Algeria beautiful welcome along if
you're watching on YouTube hello to you
over there I'll pop in later so if you
want to join the zoom class make sure
you register next time et tu language
comm it's much easier for me to
communicate with you hello deep in India
and Thailand Egypt my favourite country
sorry everybody else I had a great time
when I went to Egypt beautiful so yeah
this is our first ever community class
the idea of this class is that I want to
help you study this week I want to show
you what's coming up in the e2 classes
I'm going to show you the topics that
we'll cover I'll tell you exactly where
to go on the platform in your course
what you should study I'm gonna give you
some links to things that you can read
and listen to I'm gonna give you a
downloadable thing at the end and also
you're gonna do some work so you know
when you go to the gym or you go to a
fitness class you don't just sit there
and listen to the instructor do you get
up when you do a bit of work so that's
what I want you to do today as well
we're going to do a little bit of vocab
and grammar I want you to participate so
don't just watch and listen make sure
that you take part this is a really good
study week if you're just joining for
the first time with e - with this class
and a couple of the writing classes this
week your IELTS score should skyrocket
we've got some really important lessons
coming up so the great time to start if
you're a regular this will be a great
week for you
as well all right during the session
there's a lot of people but if you have
a question please use the chat box I'll
answer whatever I can if I miss your
question or it's not relevant just save
it at the end of answer as many as I can
there as well
okay so just in the chat box let's try
one more time could you send your
message to all panelists and attendees
so not just all panelists that means
only I see it so I'm gonna type hello to
everybody and just check that you are
doing the same things you've pre well
done yeah slow down okay I will slow
down that's it thanks guys that's better
okay let's get started this is our plan
for the community class we're gonna
start with dictation do you remember
dictation from high school actually a
really really useful language learning
skill so I'm gonna do five sentences for
you you're gonna need either a pen and
paper or you're gonna type in the chat
box we're going to review some
vocabulary will do a grammar workshop I
know everyone loves it and I'll give you
homework tasks and lower class info I'm
also going to give you a downloadable
topic toolkit if you are here on zoom'
with me and the theme is health so I
chose this theme of course because of
the situation we're in at the moment but
also our life classes this week the
writing task 2 topic of both of them is
health too so it's important to have
good health vocabulary hello I'm on and
ship reached welcome along alright so
let's start we're gonna do dictation now
I'm gonna just read five sentences to
use everybody know what it is dictation
have you done it before
probably having terrible high school
flashbacks right now but do I it's all
for a purpose yeah
actually listening right not breathing
right now : I guess your aim here I want
you to get five out of five five
sentences that are
perfect it's quite difficult but let's
see how we go I'm gonna turn off my
camera okay I'm gonna close the chat box
too just so that there's no cheating so
you can't see your classmates work okie
Dokes everyone ready
beautiful okay sentence number one I'm
gonna read it twice by the way sentence
number one the government introduced a
new law that prohibits gathering in
large numbers number one the government
introduced a new law that prohibits
gathering in large numbers number two
people who are suffering acute symptoms
should call their doctor people who are
suffering acute symptoms should call
their doctor great start you guys I'm
watching the chat box just have a go
even if you're not sure okay number
three the staff who work in the
emergency department need masks
the staff who work in the emergency
departments need masks
number four covet 19 is a virus which
affects the respiratory system
kovat 19 is a virus which affects the
respiratory system great job last one
now number five the scientists that we
interviewed are working on a treatment
the scientists that we interviewed are
working on a treatment okay do you want
any of those repeated otherwise we'll
check the answers let me know pretty
good job there in the chatbox well done
who knows you're doing well Thank You
Zack how you going alright let's check
the answers here we go out of the way
number one so check your spelling check
your word endings the government
introduced a new law that prohibits
gathering in large numbers number two
people who are suffering acute symptoms
should call their doctor three the staff
who work in the emergency department
need masks for covert 19 is a virus
which affects the respiratory this word
was a problem respiratory system and
number five the scientists that we
interviewed are working on a treat how
did you go did anyone get fired out of
fire the most difficulty monisha well
done you are a star a beater you too
yeah if you put that in small letters
that's fine don't worry luckily you
don't have to do this in the real test
this is just an activity for those of
you who have your hands up or putting
questions in the queue and I just use
the chat box that's easier for me great
yeah
Mallett a lot of people make mistakes
with the word scientist definitely saw
do your writing on paper no worries okay
so I'm going to use these sentences
during this session okay and let's start
with a quick quiz okay I'm gonna open
the chat box for this one so we can have
a race
she efreet well done five out of five
sorry about that's okay quick quiz we're
ready I want you to type your answers
into the chat box question number one
from these words which word means
critical or severe one word Oh nebula
well done Anthony just behind critical
or severe you got it acute acute
symptoms critical severe serious okay
here we go number two which word means
related to breathing Evelyn will done
Faye just behind supersonic typers
respiratory well done number three here
we go which word means fans Evelyn you
are so fast you're the winner of all of
these
that's it Charles Djou honey hello nice
to see you again for cubits that's it
number four which word means action to
bring about healing well he likes you on
that one good job guys down here
treatments to bring about healing number
five last one which word means
experiencing pain or unpleasant emotions
so there Evelyn Wong you are just too
quick a few various answers this is the
word I was looking for suffering
suffering so five out of five anyone
very
Karen Manisha Charles Pizza all going so
quickly well done so if you're
struggling with that just in general if
you want to build up your vocab have a
look into your course in general or
academic click on the vocab section and
there are two buttons now general and
academic vocabulary word lists
collocations lists the general word list
and the topic toolkits are also here
there are ten of them in there at the
moment and ten more coming I think
tomorrow so make sure you keep checking
back in here these are really good
places to see vocabulary by theme so if
you've already got a couple of toolkits
they have writing topics there's a big
list of vocab there's a sample essay and
there's a resource section where you can
click on links to read something listen
to something watch something so today
I'm going to share the health topic
toolkit with you in the chat box but the
other ones ten other ones are and by the
way those who are asking yesterday we do
have a code if you want to upgrade or
change your subscription that you can
get 15 US dollars off with the code
better together 15 so if you're thinking
of joining in - of course you should or
you want to get higher subscription for
more feedback or tutorials make sure
that you type better together 15 Miguel
yeah it includes the Express Plus
package so that that is the mock test
Plus Express do you know in US dollars
15 off that and gold silver bronze
packages also include the mock tests so
it's off their packages Miguel take a
screenshot of that I'm still wearing a
good question I have no idea usually
it's a few days but I'm not sure all
right this is my favorite gift and this
is to introduce grandma if you're a 90s
child like me you'll appreciate this
look at these five sentences from before
sorry she's pre do you have a question
for me while you're typing everybody
else have a look at these five quests
five sentences and tell me what do they
have in common
hmm yes maybe covered 19 I'm thinking of
something grammar here I'll shoot free
let's talk about that at the end perhaps
you can see your question okay Charles
says all of them are complex sentences
that's a good guess why are they complex
sentences what makes them complex you're
right I run out yes very good they have
subordinate clauses
Rennick said the words whoo and that yes
alia as well so all of these sentences
have relative clauses and they're in red
and you lords that prohibits gathering
in large numbers people who are
suffering acute symptoms staff who work
in the emergency department
a virus which affects the respiratory
system the scientists that we
interviewed these are relative causes
what is the function of them why are
they here
beautiful
Irene well done to explain more clearly
yeah yeah you're right and Anthony very
good to give more detail that's exactly
right so they give us more information
about usually a thing or a person so you
can split this into two sentences but
that's a bit basic we want to have one
sentence with extra information it's
very very important in academic writing
and when you're reading you'll see this
all the time so government introduced a
new law well what more tell me more what
sort of law a law that prohibits
gathering in large numbers can you
remember that any government introduced
the new law good question Irene how can
we distinguish that who which I'll tell
you now so a new law that prohibits
gathering in large numbers about this on
people should call their doctor which
people this is where I need the relative
Clause people should call their doctor
not all people just certain people
specific people people who are suffering
acute systems
well done Karen and what about this the
staff need masks will not not all staff
which stuff yeah good job the staff who
work in the emergency department so
that's how relative clauses work that's
their job let's have a look more
specifically at the grammar can you see
the relative pronouns one of them is
that what are the other ones here yeah
who which yeah just the relative
pronouns that's right so that who who
which and that okay and someone I think
Irene just asked me what what's the
difference that and who in which let's
have a look so the first sentence
the new law so is a law a thing or is
the law of person trick question
simple question yeah it's a thing so
when we're describing it being a
relative clause with a thing we can use
that or another word which word yeah
which so you could say did the
government introducing you and all of
that prohibits government introduced a
new law which prohibits both fine
both good okay but for people people who
are suffering we can use who or mm-hmm
people are suffering yes that's right
that people that are suffering a few of
you wrote those you could replace both
of these things remove them and put
those that's fine otherwise people who
or people that are very sure how come I
don't know that's just the rule who or
that for people and sent a yes I'll get
two commas in a moment okay so four
three four and five you tell me which
other pronouns could we use instead of
who instead of which instead of that
yeah
number three very good the staff who and
the staff that and good we're about four
and number five the scientists people
yeah okay so here we go
staff who and the staff that work it's a
virus which is the virus that scientists
who and the scientists that we
interviewed all of those are okay sorry
I saw a few questions flying past there
is anybody by the way please feel free
to answer each other's questions
sometimes the chat box go so quickly I
miss the question
Irene yeah you can use that for objects
and also that for people like she's the
woman that sold me the car no not only
for objects you can use that for people
why five is not whom the scientists whom
we interviewed are it could be but for
today's lesson I'm not dealing with whom
or where I'm just dealing with who that
and which so number five it's fine who
and that and yes you can use that for
people and that for things you're too
can you join this sentence together
using a relative clause now just who
that and which two sentences people
exercise regularly they should have so
they usually have stronger immune
systems
can you join it together
very nice yeah very good so it's just an
example people who exercise regularly
usually have stronger immune systems we
don't need any commas in here because if
I remove these if I just said people
usually have stronger immune system
doesn't make sense this is really
important information people who
exercise regularly could also say people
that exercise regularly that's fine all
right
over to you I'll give you all sentences
here I want you to make four sentences
join each one using a relative Clause by
the way I can see your questions coming
through I just I don't want to pause and
answer everything I'm sorry about that
but if you stay till the end I will try
to come back and answer them okay so two
and a half minutes have a go can you
join these sentences using who which or
that go for it
you
lovely work all right thank you everyone
in the chatbox
good job now there are a few possible
options I'm going to show you some of
them so first one here's a possible
answer children who eat junk food are
more likely to become obese in adulthood
or children that eat junk food both okay
number two the nurse who helped us or
the nurse that helped us was extremely
kind number three he works for a company
that or a company which is manufacturing
a new vaccine and number four have you
seen the Doctor Who the doctor that and
some of you have the doctor to whom
that's also okay that I was talking to
before yeah you can say have you seen
the doctor to whom I was talking before
that's okay as well I'm just not really
covering whom today give yourself a
score well done fours and fives great
job remember these are just possible
answers your ones might be okay
and yes if you're using whom it would be
better to say the doctor to whom that
would be fine okay let's look at these
read sentences now in one of these
sentences we can remove we could take
out the relative pronoun who which or
that which one good one we go most of
you got it down here we can remove this
one have you seen the doctor I was
talking to before so this one we can
remove it we don't need the relative
pronoun the other ones we have to have
it in there Why Why is it okay to remove
it here not in other places Zack no not
not which no it's not because it's a
question it's not because of the verb
tense let me try to explain it's a
little bit tough to explain okay but
let's start with number two here so here
the nurse helped the nurse who helped us
was extremely kind we have to have this
relative pronoun here that's because
these are the two sentences the nurse
helped us she was kind to hear that who
and the man relates to she which is the
subject so the nurse helped us she was
kind in these sort of sentences we have
to keep whoo and that the nurse who
helped us this is the object here us
okay but down here have you seen the
doctor I was talking to the doctor
before so in this case who or that is
not the subject who or that is the
object I was talking to her before
I'm the subject so have you seen the
doctor that I was talking to before I
was talking to her before stop confusing
and I'll show you a simple away to
remember but that's the grammar reason
why but a simpler an easier way I think
to remember it it is usually effective
after who in there so here between who
and that and the verb there's no noun or
pronoun so no I know no she no John in
here the nurse who helped us was
extremely kind no noun in between the
pronoun and the verb in that case keep
the relative pronoun
okay but here when there's another noun
I or you or John or the cats in this
case we can remove it the doctor I was
talking to before is that easier
let me see I'm sure you guys have got
better ways to explain it so let me just
give you a quick verbal example then
we'll do one on the screen I guess this
is the phone oops this is the phone that
I bought last year this is the phone
that I bought last year could I remove
that this is the phone that I bought I
bought it yet you can take it out in
that situation what's another example
this is the computer that this is the
computer that does not work this is the
computer that does not work could I
remove it No
very good easy sorry okay let's have a
try now on the screen can you remove the
relative pronouns from these sentences
just right yes or no so number one yes
or number one no give you a minute to
read it
and write the number two
you
let's see first one yes let's find the
therapist she was seeing retired last
month
number two the nurse first gave the
medication to those patients who were in
the most pain we cannot remove you
cannot remove it although many smokers
oppose the new law we can remove this
the new law which the government
introduced this is a noun they obeyed it
and healthy eating habits parents teach
their children can last a lifetime this
one is also good perfect scores well
done really good okay
now the good news is if you can't
remember the rule just keep the relative
pronoun doesn't matter doesn't matter if
it's being around it's just something to
know okay so all of these are defining
relative clauses defining relative
clauses basically this means that the
information is essential so there's no
commas here the therapists she was
seeing retired last month this is
important information to define the
therapist which therapists are we
talking about okay but what about non
defining relative clauses so
non-defining relative clause is when we
add information and it's not essential
information it's just extra okay this is
where the comments are going to come
into it so here's the hospital the GSP
hospital has 250 beds it was renovated
in 1999 so in this case let's imagine
this is not important information just
extra not essential so we can put it in
the same place the GSP Hospital which
was renovated in 1999 has 250 beds so
notice here comments we use these commas
to show that the information is not
essential it's just extra so I know
which hospital this is this information
does not define the hospital I already
know the GSP hospital
this is just extra information and
another thing to to know with
non-defining relative clauses don't use
that so when you've got commas like this
only use which and if it's a person only
who's who don't use that okay you're ten
good question dunya how do you know it
depends on context a little bit so for
these ones just presume that you've got
a piece of non-essential information
first one here the decision was made at
8:00 p.m. yesterday the decision was not
popular with the general public
so in this case let's say that this
which one let's say that this sentence
this part is not essential so can you
write me the sentence with a non
defining course Thank You Mia well done
and Charles that's good good study oh
that's right but you've made a defining
relative clause because you've got no
commas grammatically it's okay good just
breathe
good Sanjay that's it so the decision
which was not popular with the general
public was made at 8:00 p.m. yesterday
so the decision was made at 8:00 p.m.
yesterday this is just extra information
in here and yes you need commas here
Marlon do you mean what's the function
of a non-defining relative course okay I
think the question was what's what's the
difference here so sometimes you're
giving information which is essential to
know what you're talking about like this
is the pen but you don't know which pen
so this is the pen which my friend gave
me yesterday or this is the pen that my
friend gave me yesterday okay I know
this particular pen that information is
essential in that sentence but in
another situation you may just want to
add extra information for whatever
reason and for those saying how do I
know it's essential or not it's not up
to you or it's up to the writer you
decide if it's essential or not so the
pen
which was given to me by my friend comma
doesn't really work anymore
so in that sentence it was given to me
by my friend I'm saying that's not
essential information it's just extra so
I put commas around it and I use the
word which not the word that that helped
so in this particular case these commas
here and there are a lot of rules for
commas I'm not saying this is the rule
for all commas but non-defining relative
clauses in the middle of a sentence are
surrounded by commas yes so I guess
you've got to make the decision it is
the information in essential to
understanding what you're talking about
so if it's if you mentioned the name of
the hospital for example then I know
what hospital you're talking about but
if you are telling me a story and you
don't you don't mention or you don't
know the hospital name then maybe you'll
use a defining relative clause like the
hospital which is down the street caught
on fire so that's a defining relative
clause the hospital which hospital I
don't know what you're talking about the
hospital which is down the street let's
have another game all right
here we go my sister my sister had to
take two weeks off with the flu and this
is my extra information she had never
taken a sick day before can you make a
sentence for me once now well done good
job and you're gonna stick the extra
information here surround it with
comments don't forget the commas this is
just extra information we know we know
who your sister is this is not defining
it's just extra that's it guys well done
good my sister comma who had never taken
a sick day before Connor had to take two
weeks off with the flu so my sister had
to take two weeks off with the flu
that's the main sentence that's the
important thing this is just extra bonus
information can you write in the chat
box for me a sentence about your brother
or your sister or your best friend in a
similar way my friends who finish the
sentence use your imagination but with a
non-defining relative clause I'll do one
as well
okay fantastic I'll read a couple of
these out let's see so Stephanie wrote
my friend kama who doesn't like sushi ,
ate two pieces yesterday
Marlin my sister kama who has been in a
relationship for a decade oh come on
needed to postpone their wedding this
year correct oh that's that Karen my
friend kama who already has two phones
kama bought a new one recently great
work
good so Neha you would take the first
comment out there my brother ate all the
food of mine , which I don't like it all
very good touch you good Sanjay so I
think you'd make that non-defining my
brother kama who's a doctor kama is
working in this hospital that's it okay
final one now this one's a little bit
different let's have a look the elderly
woman had to wait 16 hours in the
hospital waiting room this is
unacceptable
okay so here a little bit different well
you think a comma we're going to use a
comma and which to refer to the entire
sentence the whole situation not just
the person or the things so in this case
I don't want to talk about the hospital
waiting room I want to make a comment
about this whole situation the woman had
to wait a long time this is unacceptable
I want to put this together
and I can do it like this with a comma
which is unacceptable the elderly
had to wait 16 hours in the hospital
waiting room , which is unacceptable
so the fact that she had to wait in the
waiting room is unacceptable that's
another type of relative clause
non-defining very it's very common in
academic writing too so now Rose this
part and accept really modifies the
whole sentence the whole thing here it's
like saying somebody stole my car
, which was devastating so in that
sentence I'm not talking about my car
and talking about the situation somebody
stole my car
, which was devastating for me Sanjay
know in this one because we've got a
comma we can't use that if you have that
here you need a full stop and a new
sentence so like here you can say that
is unacceptable or this is unacceptable
capital T fresh sentence but here you
cannot say that you have to say which
Therese that is okay but you'd take the
comma off there and then oh yes you can
also do that but not not after a comma
so after a comma which and Manisha I
still need a comma after hours there
because it's not that hours which is
unacceptable it's the situation which is
unacceptable and Zack take off the
common air because always so creative
yeah Bhupesh it is unacceptable that all
right let's keep going I'll give you a
little more chance which sentences are
wrong five sentences if you see a wrong
sentence can you correct it if it's
correct just right tick or yes or no
problem three minutes valise
you
time is just about outlets have a look
here are the answers guys okay so the
first one had a mistake the nurses that
work in this hospital are highly trained
don't take off this is pronoun number
two it's correct cases are still
increasing comma which is alarming so
this is talking about the whole sentence
number three public health initiatives
which are essential for a healthy
population non-defining relative cause
are desperately in need of funding are
very sure in need of funds that's fine
if you have an S here yep also okay for
we needed to make commas here
so Jessica extra information who lives
next door to me it's still overseas
jessica is still overseas and five the
vaccine he's been working on it's due to
be released in six months comma which is
great news number five y which because
this is a non defining clause it's
talking about this whole situation here
after the comma we use we don't use that
after a comma
you know non-defining relative course
i'll great use no no scores please that
is our final thing how did it go four
five three all right
pretty good you're feeling a bit more
confident i hope when you go away from
class now and you read something i'm
sure that you're gonna see relative
clauses everywhere you go you'd be
surprised how common they are and this
was not all of the rules about relative
courses but hopefully the important ones
that there is more to learn but yeah
these are some common errors that I see
so hopefully that's helped you out a
little bit why don't we put a comma
before that aha
in general if it's a non-defining
relative clause it's just a it's just
the rule I don't know why we just don't
so down here that is great news we just
don't do it
it's can it's a error but a good
question but no idea okay I'm gonna give
you some homework tasks now for those of
you here on zoom' I'm gonna help you out
by pasting the links hopefully into the
chat box for you so this is what I want
you to work on for the next few days so
one I want you to read an article about
public health this is to get ready for
Tuesday and Thursdays writing tasks to
classes so it's in the conversation the
headline is want to improve health start
by reducing inequalities okay I'm gonna
paste that work so into the chat box
I've put the link for that article I've
also put the link for this video this is
the other bit of homework by the way
there five bits of homework this is
number two I want you to watch this
video on complex sentences I've posted
the link in the chat box if you're
watching on YouTube just take a
screenshot and so just look on YouTube e
to IELTS complex sentences this will be
with complex sentences and relative
clauses you will be safe from scoring
bad four or five six in grandma they're
very very important for your writing
score number three for those of you here
on zoom' my e to crew in your e to
course I want you to go to for general
go-to writing task 1 and click on
informal letters I want you to watch the
method video and maybe do a couple of
practice activities this will help you
for tomorrow and Wednesday's class all
about informal casual letters academic
people this week you're working on maps
so go to the course go to writing task 1
click on maps and same thing look at the
video do a couple of activities to get
ready for class tomorrow
number 4 submit the writing task for
assessment so this is for those of you
who have the writing package
with a two gold silver bronze I want you
to do some writing this week so in your
course
what's your video like click on the
feedback section of your package and
you'll see tasks ones and task two so
you can have a look for instance if your
general go to task one have a look at
the type of question it is you can see
it's either formal semi formal or casual
if you're not confident go and watch a
method video about that or look at a
sample and then write it and submit it
so that you'll start to get your
feedback during this week number five
homework easy one is to attend at least
one life class per day or watch the
recording so on your dashboard menu on
the left click on live classes to
register if your paid member you have
access to the recordings click on
recorded classes to review something
that you missed over the last week or
the week before the last two weeks are
held in there and a final little present
for you is the health toolkit so I'm
going to just share the link here on
zoom' just a moment has anyone used the
topic toolkit before let's check that
link for me so this is in the vocab
section of your course the topic
toolkits are obviously arranged by topic
animals art food and farming this one is
not on the platform yet so you are the
first ones to get it and it has a
resource section where you can click
through to read listen watch things all
about the topic so obviously this week's
topic is health the topic toolkit will
help you either call the Arzak thank you
oh it's not working
can you guys test those wings for me hmm
just the first one
you're welcome again if somebody has the
other link that articles just paste them
in the chat box for me okay seems all
right let me just flick forward here's
another thing for you to take a picture
of actually I'll put um this is what's
coming up this week so we are here in
the community class we've got all of
this to look forward to this week later
today we've got the task one academic
you're working on maps passive voice
general casual letters and focusing on
how to get a casual tone this is all the
rest of the week I won't go through it
but please take a picture so that you
can have a look and plan your studies
all right like the other toolkits are in
the vocab section in your course and
here's the code again just in case so
remember to use better together 15 if
you want to upgrade or join for the
first time as well 15 u.s. dollars off
so this means very very cheap feedback
as well so for the writing course it's
already 69 US dollars which is super
cheap you get six pieces of writing
assessed plus access to all our classes
absolute bargain with fifteen dollars
off so be quick on that one all right
I'm gonna pause thank you for watching
on YouTube I'm gonna stop our stream and
check with my friends here on zoom' so
all you guys on zoom' if you've got
questions please let me know youtubers
come and join us next time a to language
comm writing classes are happening in a
few hours
we'll see you there